LIFE OF DIAGORAS

ceive a talent, and whoever shall kill one of the
dead tyrants, a talent3 and we want to do the same
here. Whoever shall kill Philocrates the Struthian
shall receive a talent, and whoever shall bring him
alive, four talents‚ etc.

Scholiast on the passage: Diagoras of Melos: This
man after the capture of Melos came to live at
Athens, and disparaged the Mysteries, with the
result that many of the citizens were unwilling to
be initiated. Accordingly the Athenians‚ as we are
told by Melanthius in his tract On the RIysteries,

made this proclamation against him and inscribed it
on a bronze tablet.

Aristophanes Clouds: STREPsmnEs and Pammp-
P1DES: S. Vol-tex is king; he has turned out Zeus.
-P. Bah! what nonsense l—S. You may take it it's
true—P. Who says so ?——S. Socrates of Melos.

Scholiasts on. the passage : Of Melos t—Not literally,
for Socrates was an Athenian. But because Diagoras,
who was a Melian, was attacked for opposing the
Gods, and Socrates is now attacked by the poet for
atheism, Aristophanes calls Socrates a Melian. (2)
Diagoras of Melos, who after a friend had betrayed
his trust, turned atheist, which so enraged the
Athenians that they maltreated Melos. (3) Diagoras
was a blasphemer, of Melos (cf. 3 belom). According

'co another account Diagoras was a teacher of
Socrates.

59

